our main story tonight is the threat of
nuclear annihilation it's probably been
a while since you thought about it but
there was a time when people lived in
almost constant fear children used to be
shown this in schools Sunday's holidays
vacation time we must be ready every day
all the time to do the right thing if
the atomic bomb explodes in color I'll
say this for the 1950s they had the
perfect blend of
optimism and pessimism the death blast
is coming but we'll survive it if we all
get under this picnic blanket by the
1980s attitudes had changed the TV movie
the day after had a slightly different
tone see if you can spot it
[Music]
the worst thing is Danny would have been
fine if he just had a picnic blanket
with him what were you thinking your
little fool but the strange thing is all
of that seems so dated nowadays we spend
less time worrying about nuclear
annihilation than we do worrying about
whether we accidentally hit reply all on
an office email oh did I send that
to Dave I said his face looks like a
ferret but maybe maybe we should be
worrying about nuclear warheads a bit
more and not the ones in North Korea
Iran or Russia but the ones we have here
at home
America has around 4,800 nuclear
warheads which is more than enough not
just to destroy earth but to provide 4th
of July fireworks for Martians some of
our most powerful weapons are
intercontinental ballistic missiles
ICBMs which is both an acronym and what
you would say if you saw one coming at a
little joke for all you
gastroenterologist out there
they are currently in silos in Wyoming
Montana and North Dakota let's start
with Wyoming how well are we taking care
of these things take this enormous outer
door designed to protect the corridor
leading to the capsule they can't close
it because of a broken part so it's
propped open with a crowbar and marked
with a danger tag okay so be honest
repairs like that are less appropriate
in a nuclear silo than they are in a
divorced dad's condo why does the fridge
open with string daddy and for the
record for the record it's not just
their hardware that needs updating it's
their software too
the equipment is ancient this for
example is one of the computers that
would receive a launch order from the
president it uses floppy disks the
really old big ones oh those things
barely look powerful enough to run
Oregon Trail must watch wargames and go
one day one day we'll get to play with
that stuff fingers crossed
things are a little better in North
Dakota 17 air force officers are being
relieved of their duties controlling
nuclear missiles an inspection in March
tested the group's missile launch
proficiency they were rated as marginal
the equivalent of Ernie a degrade barely
passing that's not great I do really
think when it comes to safeguarding the
deadliest objects ever known to mankind
we should really insist on something
more in a solid B plus C minus range
okay finally let's look at Montana
the good news there officers have not
had D grades the bad news is Y 34 US Air
Force nuclear launch officers have been
stripped of their certification four
months ago a launch officer at Malmstrom
Air Force Base in Montana allegedly
texted the answers to a monthly
proficiency test to other officers at
the base
they texted the answers those answers
should not be text above you should not
be able to answer how do you prevent the
launch of a Minuteman 3 with emojis it
has to be more complicated than that
ok let's not overreact no not everyone
is good at tests how are the people in
North Dakota and Montana working in the
field picture this for Air Force
officers who hold the launch keys to
nuclear missiles leaving open the blast
door that's supposed to prevent
terrorists from entering the capsule
this while another slept inside which is
allowed only if the door is closed and
who discovered this in one case it was a
maintenance team in another case it was
discovered by someone delivering food
and once again America is saved from
destruction by the heroes in meal team 6
and in case you think it's just
low-level unmotivated officers who are
dropping the ball here let's meet two of
the top people who've been in charge of
our most powerful missiles first up
Major General Michael Carey he was
relieved of command last October for
spectacular reasons according to an Air
Force inspector general's report on a
recent trip to Russia Air Force general
Michael Carey was often intoxicated rude
and spent a lot of time with foreign
women he often interrupted presentations
he often interrupted translators with
annoying comments when he gave toasts
and that really irritated the Russians
just just just think about that the man
overseeing our ICBMs was too drunk for
the Russians for the Russians and CNN
barely skimmed the surface of this story
the inspector general's report reads
like Ron Burgundy goes to Russia
apparently general Kerry at one point
tried to fist bump a confused Russian
tour guides then dragged his staff to a
restaurant called la Cantina because he
and I quote really wanted to see this
Beatles cover band
prompting one staffer to observe I
wouldn't pick a Mexican place to go in
Russia but all right if that's where he
wants to go we'll go there and even once
he was there it wasn't over because he
again I quote was really intent on
singing with the band and he said go ask
him if I can play guitar which led to
the immortal sentence I told the general
that basically um you know that he can't
he can't play the guitars take a moment
to consider the run of poor decisions
that are required before you're being
told you can't play guitar with a
Beatles cover band when you're drunk
at a Mexican restaurant in Russia
[Applause]
deadliest nuclear warheads and in case
that doesn't scare you enough until
recently one of the men overseeing all
the people we've met so far was Vice
Admiral Tim G Adina the president
relieved him of his command last year
for an even weirder reason Admiral
Timothy gr Dina's undoing began with a
local criminal investigation in Iowa
where he was spotted on surveillance
cameras using counterfeit poker chips at
the Horseshoe Casino in Council Bluffs
okay I'm sorry but a vice admiral has to
have the mental fortitude to fool an
Iowa pit boss you have to you have to
and also this meets let's recap that
within the last 12 months we were in a
situation where in the event of us
launching a nuclear strike the
president's command would theoretically
have gone through a man gambling with
fake poker chips who would have then
tried to call a drunk guy wrestling with
a Russian George Harrison
who would have then needed to send
someone with a bag full of burritos to
wake up an officer and tell him to go
grab an LP sighs floppy disk and begin
the solemn process of ending the world
as we know it we were lucky nothing
terrible has happened
we're actually even luckier than you
think over the years America has had
some pretty terrifying almost geddens
the Goldsboro incident of 1961
that's when a US b-52 bomber jet broke
in half during a flight and lost its
load two nuclear bombs where was it
flying at the time over the city of
Goldsboro North Carolina both bombs
plummeted to the ground one was nearly
armed set to explode but miraculously
neither did yep you dropped an armed
nuclear bomb on your own country and it
is frankly amazing that you don't talk
about that more often
there is genuinely a weirdly restrained
sign marking the events calling it a
nuclear mishap when it clearly should
really say holy you have no idea what I
know you know you're probably thinking
okay all right we nearly blew up one of
the Carolinas but that's basically why
we have to but in that case how about
that one time we risk blowing up
Arkansas someone dropped a socket in the
silo and the socket set fell about 70
feet pierced the missile caused a fuel
leak and then there was a huge explosion
just think about the system we have
designed in the rock-paper-scissors
logic socket beats nuclear missile and
if that feels too much like ancient
history to you here is something from as
recently as 2007 six nuclear tipped
cruise missiles were loaded onto a b-52
blown across the country and left
unguarded on the tarmac no one noticed
for 36 hours and that must have been a
hell of a moment when they realized hey
guys um those things that have been out
there for a day and a half there is no
way that those are nuclear shoes it
seems clear at this point we have too
many nuclear weapons to take care of
them properly so why aren't we reducing
them well we were to be fair since 1988
we got rid of more than 18,000 warheads
but recently things have slowed down a
lot president obama has reduced our
arsenal by just 309 which is crazy at a
time of budgetary cutbacks we are
spending three hundred and fifty five
billion dollars over the next decade on
something we don't need and don't take
that from me take it from someone who
actually know something about this the
one thing I convinced myself of after
all these years of exposure to the use
of nuclear weapons is that they were
useless yeah nuclear weapons are
basically like Americans t-rex arms
they're essential they're essentially
useless and you are plenty scary enough
without them when you have when you have
4,800 of something you don't need you
are being a hoarder at that point it's
like it's like having 4,800 caps
sure each one might have made sense when
you got it but it all happened so
gradually you didn't really notice that
things have gotten out of hand and now
you have too many of these agents of
chaos and destruction and one of these
days one of them might kill you the
problem is there are two key things
stopping us from reducing our nuclear
weapons the first is politics because
there are lawmakers from both parties
who have missile silos in their states
and they will fight any attempt to close
them no matter how much sense that makes
and they'll fight it with ironclad logic
like this we know that maintaining our
current silos is the best interest and
in the best interest of taxpayers
because rebuilding them would be
very expensive okay let me get that
straight you are spending money on
something you don't need in the hopes
that you'll be saving money on the off
chance one day you eventually do meet
what exactly are you saying there that's
desperate that's like saying I have to
hold on to my storage facility full of
Aquaman action figures on the off chance
that my future wife really likes them
she will not she will not she will not
want those things you don't need them
that the man there that's that's Steve
Dame's and the house was discussing a
bill that guaranteed that silos would be
kept open until at least 2021 he was
trying to attach an amendment removing
the end date altogether
essentially meaning no matter what the
Pentagon wanted the silos would have to
be kept open forever it was clearly a
ridiculous amendment let's now watch it
pass on this vote the yeas are do 22 the
nays are 196 the MER member is an object
that is some weapons-grade now
the Senate could still make big changes
to that bill but for that to happen
people would need to care and that
brings us to the main reason why so
little is being done to reduce our
number of nuclear warheads deep down
people just don't give enough of a
anymore
in the 1980's hundreds of thousands of
people pushed for disarmament in Central
Park but in May of this year this is
what a House hearing on nuclear security
looked like we should point out probably
one of the few hearings in which
actually the tenets of the subcommittee
compares very favorably with the
attendance in the audience because the
public has not tuned into these issues
as they should that's right a hearing on
the most dangerous things on earth had
attendance rivaling that of a weekday
open mic poetry slam
and the problem is no one honestly
believes that we're going to destroy
ourselves despite the fact that that
hasn't nearly happened multiple times
but shouldn't we at the very least be
reducing our stockpile down to a number
where we can look after them properly
with enough qualified people none of
whom are going to cheat on a test leave
a door open or vomit a half-eaten
chimichanga onto a Slovak Ringo all I'm
saying is if humanity is going to be
destroyed by a nuclear weapon let's make
sure that it's at least intentional
let's have it be a u.s. president riding
a missile with a middle finger held to
the sky screaming humanity's last words
Q world America is shutting this
down please let us have our last words
be oops oh